So now let's get to work on install in our local host on our on computer.
So I'm going to head over to my web browser.
An on a search for mump which is a MP.
And then when the mump or in full so to select that.
OK.
So for this video and want of using the mump package which gives us Apache the my Escuela for all the
databases and also HP and as well as server side languages that is different local hosts which you can
download such as example or example.
And when won't use a month for this video.
It's free to use it's free to download and it's available for both Windows and Mac.
So to get started just click on the download button.
And then just scroll down to the version of your choice.
So I won't know who's in the muck version.
So click on the download button to get started.
So just give that a few moments to download.
So basically mump is a package which includes a web server.
So replicate a web server on your own computer so you can work with server side languages such as HP
would allow them to upload your website to allow a web server.
And it also allows us to create my esky world databases that we can interact with so we can basically
develop your website on your own computer and then once it's finished.
You can upload it and start only paying for a web server.
Once your website is complete.
That is a pro version available with mump.
But the normal version is more than good enough for all purposes.
So just give that a few moments to download and return in just a minute.
Okay welcome back.
So hopefully the mump package has been now downloaded onto your system.
If you just go through the installation process in the usual way.
So I'm going to click Continue.
And agree to the licence.
Install.
Or users.
A.m. for the standard installation.
And then just let it install.
There we go.
So now that it's fully installed on system and I should get rid of this for now.
OK it's open if using a Mac or Windows.
Just head over to the location which you can store all that.
In my case it's in the applications and then is a month pro the standard month folder.
So just click on the month folder and then you can see inside is various different files.
But the one were going to be mainly concentrating on is the hate t docs which is short for the hypertext
documents and this is basically the folder other location which were going to put our website in there
will want to be served by the local host.
So I'll just leave off just for one second.
I'm going to create a new folder just on the desktop.
I was going to simply call this p HP website.
Just as a quick example.
Now it's going to open this up inside of brackets as an example.
So just plug it in and when I get a new page so I want to create a very basic index page use an HP so
to say that inside the folder as in works doppie HP and then open up our HP brackets.
And also the close tag.
So I'm trying to create a simple echo.
And then I put it between page one's eyes.
And going to make a message say in the HP website is working.
And then say.
So if we're now to open up inside the browser you should notice that there's a problem.
So let's open this up.
Inside a chrome.
Scroll down find your web browser.
OK.
It says the contents of our index page but it's not exactly of all in because when we're serving these
pages as a website we don't want to display all the HP.
We just want the content or the hate jamile to be returned.
So in our case we just want the text in between.
So now what we need to do to get this to work is we need to drag HP website folder inside the HD docs.
So just drag it over and drop that insider.
And then if we just open up our mom program.
And then click on Start servers.
And you're not in the top right and Connors the Apache server and my esky well.
And scroll down and see some information.
So we've got the host as a local host and the user and password has been set to root.
So that's all working correctly.
And inside the mump program if we click on the preferences you can find out a little bit more about
the version of people who were.
You can click on the ports and the Apache port is the one which you're going to be using inside the
browser.
So that's doable eight double eight.
So if you go back over to Crome and now you can read off an index stop HP inside the local host.
And then if you type in local host and now we need a call on.
And then of course and pause.
8 8 8 8 just typed inside there.
And then to get all those we can either just go into it just as it is and we see exactly what is inside
Haiti docs.
So in our case it has to be Web website or you can actually type that in at the end of the you are old.
So you click on cyder and then gholson now rather than have in all the HP tags that echo print into
the screen.
We've now got the actual hate mail returned.
So now the HP website is now working as though it on a live web server.
And if were any different files or folders inside the docs You just need to use exactly the same local
host the debate of late.
And then just change the folds flash to the directory that you put inside there and you can see which
direction we were working on.
If you go into the web server and you can see there's a will file path to the hastey Docs.
And if want to look at a little bit further into it you can also click on the start page and it takes
you back to the welcome site and you can click on the tools and you get an option to go to HP.
My admin and that's the setting that we need to use if we want to create any databases.
You can also see on the right side all the different versions of HP furn and Apache for example that
we're currently using.
Okay so I'll just leave that video there.
So that's how you can create a local host on your own machine and serve will pay HP websites with without
the need for a live web server.